Create initial workload identity federation (#160)
microsoftgraph/msgraph-bicep-types: quickstart-templates/workload-identity-creates-workload-identities/README.md

# Create Workload Identity Federation That Can Create Other Workload Identity Federations

## The Idea

Restrict and limit the need to use high privileges to create resources.

## Objective

> A high-privilege user creates an initial workload identity federation token between Azure and a certain GitHub repository. The workload in this repository is then allowed to access Microsoft Entra to create further workload identity federation tokens and assign them to other repositories.

Reviewer: Maybe we should provide an example scenario of what is enabled here?

## Benefits

- **Enhanced Security:** Restricting high-privilege usage reduces the attack surface and potential for unauthorized access.
- **Scalability:** Facilitates the growth of projects by enabling the creation of new identity federations as needed.
- **Efficient Management:** Streamlines the process of managing resource access across multiple projects and teams.

> ```sh

Reviewer: We should also show Az PS, for those who use that.

> ```sh

Reviewer: Maybe we should start adding a table with least privileged permissions required to run the template for both delegated and app-only modes - showing permissions required to deploy both the ARM resources and the Graph/Entra resources declared in the template.
This could be part of a readme "template" we provide for all such samples...

Author: Where could I find this template? Also, how can one systematically ensure the minimum privileges without just blindly trying or "happening to know"? :)

Reviewer: This template doesn't exist :(

To **run** the Bicep template that creates the "creator workload identity app", the user would need (I think, but please verify):
- **Entra RBAC permissions**:  [Application Administrator](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference#application-administrator) and [Privileged Role Administrator](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference#privileged-role-administrator)
- **Azure RBAC permissions**: [Role-based access control administrator](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/general#role-based-access-control-administrator) and [Managed Identity Contributor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/identity#managed-identity-contributor) 

The Entra permissions are extremely privileged, especially the 2nd one.  I would advise either that this permissions are temporarily assigned for the purpose of just running the bootstrap Bicep template, or are assigned via Privileged Identity Management (if the tenant has Entra licenses/subscriptions for this).

This Bicep template itself needs to assign permissions to the creator workload identity (to create other apps, to create managed identities and assign Azure roles) and you can describe those in the template's comments.

> # Create Workload Identity Federation that can create other workload identity federations

Reviewer: I wonder whether to fully round out the scenario, that we should provide another Bicep template - i.e an example template that is created by and checked-in by project developers, picked up by the CI/CD pipeline and deployed via the privileged Creator workload identity.:

_folder structure:_
workload-identity-creates-workload-identities
- README.md
- Creator-workload-identity
   - bicepconfig.json
   - main.bicep
   - main.bicepparam
- Repo-workload-identity-example
    - bicepconfig.json
   - main.bicep
   - main.bicepparam
     
Thoughts?

## The Idea

> Restrict and limit the need to use high human privileges to create resources.

Reviewer 2: I know what high privileges are, but what are "high human privileges"?  Is that a way to indicate high privileges in delegated scenarios?

Author: I rephrased a bit.

> Create federated identity credentials (FIC) at appropriate scopes and controls to deploy company and project specific resource. The process is rooted in a Git pull request review process in order to introduce checkpoints, audit trail and repeatability to process. This should restrict the need for manual work requiring high privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create federated identity credentials (FIC) at appropriate scopes and controls to automate deployment of company and project specific resources. The process use Git pull request reviews to introduce checkpoints, audit trail and repeatability. This should remove the need for manual work requiring high privileges.
```

## Example scenario

> A high-privilege user creates an initial, bootstrap workload identity federation token between Azure and a certain GitHub repository. The workload in this repository is then allowed to access Microsoft Entra to create further workload identity federation tokens and assign them to other repositories.

Reviewer 2: Does this mean a user that is a member of a privileged role or a user that has consented to a high privilege permission?

Author: Either works? Actually, now that I think of this and your previous question, it's probably worth being more accurate and use the correct terms etc. Can you help with that? How could I phrase this part?

F.ex. while I deployed to root structures I ran `az role assignment list --scope "/" --query "[?roleDefinitionName=='User Access Administrator'].{Username:principalName, ObjectId:objectId}" --output table` returned my user name. Consequently I started to think that OK, I probably need to set up some small things to set up more from a GitHub and then delegate further to smaller privileged GitHub actions further things.

Reviewer: I think there are multiple things going on here, that probably need more explanation in the usage sections and maybe in the template comments.  At this point you probably just need something high level.

The multiple things I'm thinking are:
1. **Delegated perms to create the "creator" workload identity (part 1):** Just to "start" the picture, although this is somewhat transparent for most users. For delegated permissions, the calling application must also have the necessary privileges. In this case, Azure PS or Azure CLI has been pre-authorized with those permissions.  They're also pre-authorized for full delegated access to ARM - so that both these apps are delegated to access ARM APIs as the signed-in user (they have whatever privileges the signed in user has).
2. **Delegated perms to create the "creator" workload identity (part 2):** This is the high-privileged user that you mention. They need to have the privileges:
   - to create apps/service principals (i.e. create the creator workload identity) AND to grant that workload identity the permissions it needs to create other "repo" workload identities.  These privileges are normally assigned to users through Entra RBAC roles.
   - if the repo workload identities (that are created via the creator workload identity) need access to Azure resources, then the creator workload identity needs to be assigned the privileges that allows it to create managed identities (for FIC) and assign (scoped) Azure roles to repo workload identities. My assumption here is that this signed-in user's (privileged Azure RBAC permissions/roles) are scoped to an Azure resource group, which allow them to assign the necessary Azure permissions/roles to the creator workload identity.
3. **Permissions in GitHub and GitHub actions**: I think you allude to this in your last sentence. This is about how the workload identities' access is scoped in GitHub.  I have less familiarity with this and not sure if there is any repo hierarchy, but I could imagine that the creator workload identity is scoped to an organization, which would allow it to create workload identities scoped to all repos in the organization. However, like I say, you probably have a better idea on this than me.

> A high-privilege user creates an initial, bootstrap workload identity federation token between Azure and a certain GitHub repository. The workload in this repository is then allowed to access Microsoft Entra to create further workload identity federation tokens and assign them to other repositories.

Reviewer: I would remove the work token in this sentence. "A high-privileged user creates an initial, bootstrap workload identity federation between Azure and a certain GitHub repository."

> The goal is to create a GitHub repository that is privileged enough to create further, more specific federated identifier according to needs of specific projects. This way creating resources can be support by pull request reviews. Together with application roles and restricting the FDIC access to a certain repository, one can reduce the "blast radius" for any given project and repository and human operators.

Reviewer 2: What is FDIC?  Should this be FIC for federated identity credential?

## Benefits

- **Enhanced Security:** Restricting high-privilege usage reduces the attack surface and potential for unauthorized access.
- **Scalability:** Facilitates the growth of projects by enabling the creation of new identity federations as needed.
- **Efficient Management:** Streamlines the process of managing resource access across multiple projects and teams.

> ## Usage could look something like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## To bootstrap the Creator workload identity, run the following scripts in CLI or PS
```

### az cli

```sh
# Sign in to Azure.
az login

# Sign in to GitHub.
gh auth login

# Deploy the Bicep template and capture the output as JSON.

> deploymentOutput=$(az deployment tenant create --name bootstrap --location WestEurope --template-file ./main.bicep --parameters ./main.bicepparam --output json)

Reviewer: Would it be more scoped to create the creator app scoped to a resource group (this is more about scoping the Azure access - Entra/Graph don't know anything about Azure scoping like resource groups or subscriptions)?
Or do we think each developer that is creating their project workload identities will do so under their own resource group scope?
